###Justification for project

I would like to replicate Livingston, Rosette, and Washington (2012). My primary research interest is how gender and race intersect to produce unique organizational outcomes for individuals of multiple minority status compared to individuals with single minority status compared to majority group members. I am especially interested in how individuals differentially respond to gender stereotype confirming and gender stereotype disconfirming behaviors based on a target's other characteristics, such as race. I couldn't find a lot of relevant papers on this topic in Psychological Science (2016), and this paper is one that inspired my own current research project/idea that I am working on with my advisor. I have made a number of assumptions from this paper to build the foundation of my own research project, and replicating the results from Livingston et al (2012) will help me ascertain whether or not these assumptions are warranted. 


###Stimuli and procedures
This study employs a 2 (target race: Black vs. White) x 2 (target gender: male vs. female) x 2 (target behavior: dominant vs. communal) between-subjects design. Participants will be presented with a photograph and a description of a fictional Fortune 500 senior vice president. Photographs will be used to manipulate target gender and race and will be matched on age, attractiveness, and "babyfaceness". Descriptions will give participants information about the target's education, company tenure, and mission within the company. Participants will then read a passage describing this leader meeting with an employee who did not meet company expectations. Participants in the 'dominant behavior' condition will read a passage in which the target communicates disappointment by demanding action and expressing assertiveness. Those in the 'communal behavior' condition will read a passage in which the target communicates disappointment by encouraging the employee and expressing compassion. Participants will then rate the leader's effectiveness in this situation by rating the target on a number of questions such as: “How well do you think the leader handled the situation with the employee?”, “How effective is the leader at maximizing the employee’s performance?”, “How much do you think the leader is admired by his or her employees?”, and “How respected is this leader by the other executives at the company?”. They will also be asked to estimate what they believe is the leader's annual salary on a scale from $100,000 to $500,000. Participants will also be asked to rate the target's behavior in response to the following question: “How much does the leader’s reaction reflect something about his/her personality versus something about the situation?”. Finally, demographic information will be collected about participants including gender and race, and participants will be debriefed.  


###Potential challenges
A potential challenge for this project will be obtaining a copy of the original stimulus and survey materials used. In the Livingston et al (2012) article, the authors are rather brief in describing their procedures and materials, and as such, a full copy of the stimuli used is not readily available. Hopefully, I will be able to contact them and obtain a copy of the materials from them.